---
layout: post
title:  "Fear"
date:   2025-01-21 14:48:37 -0600
categories: thinkings
---

`Fear` is natural. 

As humans our minds naturally avoid the dangerous, scary, disadvantages, unknown things.  
We tend to stick to what we know, what we are comfortable with.

I thought about writing this topic as I was doing a 7 hour roadtrip to Big Bend National Park on a dark road and sleeping in my car for the night, I didn't feel scared at first, but as soon as I start to think about scary thoughts, like how dark the roads are, what would happen if my car breaks down etc, I started to feel `scared`. But as soon as I started to focus on driving, I felt fine.

Our minds are so powerful that it really is all in the mind.

I have not realise it before but our past experiences going a long way into shaping who we are as the way we think is shaped but these experiences. 

I was severely sick with auto-immune diseases for a good chunk of my adult life and even after I have recovered my mind still suffers from self-esteem issues because I spent a long time in self-pity.

My traumatic dating experiences caused me to have an avoidant attachment style, something I wasn't aware of.

Growing up in an Asian society I am `very` inclined to the typical good school, good job path, and that's not what I truly wanted to do.

`Fear` is caring about what others think about you  
`Fear` is always seeing the worst outcome, instead of the best  
`Fear` is avoiding the unknown

I knew what I really wanted to do is write code, travel the world, do business. Instead of being an Ivy League graduate/ FAANG employee. But I still went on with the latter path because it is the path I was comfortable with.  In fact, lots of FAANG people are asians, it has something to do with our culture, go figure.

I am scared of failure, and I had crippling self-esteem. It was like I needed all these external titles to validate my self-worth.  

And I'll admit, getting those fancy titles did help me improve my self-esteem tons, like I have proven I am "good enough". I enjoyed being acknowledged, after all, who doesn't?

But as I turn 32 this year I can't help but wonder that, this is the most pivotal time of my life. What I do in the next decade is going to shape who I am. Time is our most valuable currency, because we do not know how much we are given, so we need to spend it carefully.

I envy those who truly don't give a fk and followed their dreams early in life. Sure, many of them may end up failing, but I bet `they do not live in regrets`.

As I wake up everyday feeling unmotivated and unhappy, despite the FAANG salary I am getting, it is time for me to live by my motto, one that I first thought about 2 years ago:

`Find something that sets your heart or lights your ass on fire.`

The carrot and the stick. 

Fear is good, fear shows you what you really want.

Go ahead to the direction of the fear so that you become, uniquely you.